# Howdy: The welcoming immigration robot
A social robot designed to help refugees with learning the language native to the host country. Designed to motivate, encourage and enrich the user with basic knowledge of important concepts for everyday conversation and for helping them with finding a job!

## Problem statement
In 2018 there were over twenty thousand people who came to the Netherlands looking for refuge. An increase of over five thousand since the year before [1]. When granted asylum, immigrants are to pass the “Inburgerings-examen” within 3 years, an exam that tests skills in reading, writing and speaking the dutch language. The exam is an important hurdle for any immigrant to pass, as language proficiency has been shown to be directly linked to weekly earnings and thus effective integration into the workforce [2]. Furthermore, learning the local language has been shown to be imperative for social integration [3], which currently is substandard with 24% of migrants indicating to have no contact with native Dutch speakers, even though 94% would like more Dutch friends, and about half of them feel lonely [4]. 
Passing the “Inbugergerings-examen” has become an increasingly challenging task since 2013 when a new law was passed which made immigrants personally responsible for arranging and paying the training for the exam. According to an article by NOS this has lead to just 39% of people passing on their first try where this was 80% before the new legislation [5]. Meaning that the average language skill level amongst (relatively recently arrived) migrants is steadily declining. 
Numbers from the CBS about refugees starting out in the job market reinforce the idea that it is difficult for them to find a job. Upon 2,5 years after arriving in the netherlands only 11% of the asylum status holders have a job [6].  To counteract this, cheaper and more effective training needs to be made available to the migrants. This includes better language learning programs, but also courses on how to apply for jobs, how to do job interviews and courses about general values and standards in Dutch society. We believe one-on-one sessions with a robot could provide a great platform for learning.
